Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
566. In this episode, Scott
talks with laser and Walker
about the current state of
STEM science, technology, engineering, and
math Learning. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes today.
I'm talking with Lauren Walker. He
is a technology entrepreneur and
Atlanta native. It's got some
amazing stuff he's working on
right now around STEM. How
are you sir? Doing well?
How about yourself, Scott? I'm
pretty excited to be talking
to you. I'm feeling good.
My, my eight year old
actually he's nine now. And
I, you know, are, do
a lot of, you know,
kind of STEM and steam
science, technology engineering, and math
type stuff. Yesterday. He asked
that he wanted a, an
Alexa like an echo in
his, in his room. Like,
why do you want this?
Why, why do you need
this in your life? And
it's because he wanted to
play music. So I didn't
want to, I didn't want
to give him that. I
feel that it's too, it's
too immediate. They're too late.
It's, there's a laziness factor
there. You know, they want
the sum total of all
human knowledge available like that.
So I said, if you
want a radio like that
in your room, then you
have to build it. So
then we went off and
we've got a raspberry pie.
We went to Goodwill, we
built, we built a little
streaming internet radio. I wanted
to make it more real.
And I know that's something
that you really care about.
And that's a big part
of what we do, man.
Cause they're just like yourself.
I guess I was like,
you're saying years ago. And
so I went down the
path of engineering school and
to come and let you
engineer undergraduate graduate school. But
one of the things I
realized when I got farther
along is that a lot
of my peers, they, they
came in ready to go.
And if you look at
their experiences, a lot of
those guys or girls, they
had access to things when
they were growing up. And
when you look at that,
a lot of kids now
don't get that exposure. So
in our companies, what we
focus on is how do
you find a way to
make sure that education is
engaged and accessible and affordable.
And so spend a lot
of our time creating tool
sets to make that possible.
And so I can, our
three D printing business is
just like your, we have
a company Called my STEM
kits.com. And with that particular
business, we realized that the
three D printers is an
amazing tool that is being
severely under utilized in schools.
And so we went out
and created a library of
over 140 different things that
you can three D print
plug and play that were
aligned to the education standards,
but let people like your,
your son get access to
tools and manipulatives that they
can use that were aligned
to their, what they were
doing in school, but also
find it engaging. And so
that's a really big part
of what we do. And
it's good to hear that
story and what you've done
with your son at home,
because a lot of parents
don't have that ability to
make that happen. And the
ones that do want to
make it happen, don't have
access to resources to do
that. Yeah, I think that,
that, that, that's really, that's
really the essence of what
we want to talk about
today because I've, I've my,
my son goes to a
local public school as a
charter school. And when we
go in there, you know,
they they'll get a, they'll
get a grant. Someone will
give him a three D
printer or they'll get a
grant and they'll get a
box of Arduinos. And they'll,
you know, they'll poke at
it for awhile, but I
don't really feel like the
teachers have the resources to
understand why this is why
this is useful. Like they'll
spend a day, they'll get
the led to blink. And
then it just sits in
the corner. And frankly, the
three D printer until like,
until I kind of came
along and wanted to start
acting, it'd be more practical.
It just kind of been
sitting there. Yeah. And not
only that, like you said,
they, they want to get
engaged. But as an example,
we're doing some work down
in Florida now where we're
combining some of the work
with three D printing. In
addition to the work that
we're doing with sensors, where
a lot of times the
science teachers are the ones
responsible for teaching computing and
things along those lines. And
they're not very motivated with
going out to, like, in
my case last week, I
was looking at trying to
do some things with an
adrenal. So I went out
and I think I got
like a spark fund kit.
Right. And I played with
it. All those particular lessons
are focused very heavily on
how do you program what
an Adreno, none of those
lessons or telling a science
or math teacher, how programming
is a Draino is going
to help your kid learn
what their most important mission
is or most important goals
are. And so being able
to take those lessons and
build out solutions that are
focused on the standard, which
is what a teacher wants
to teach, helps them really
embrace that. So as an
example, this summer, one of
the progress that we're pushing
out is it's a series
of lessons that take hardware,
IOT devices that we create
three D printable kits. And
we're going through an entire
set of lessons that start
from the math and science
and computer science standards. We're
teaching kids how to program
scratch I'm focused on the
standard itself. And by the
way, it just happens to
include computing with it as
well. And so that will
allow for that science teacher
to get behind it, expose
it, not be intimidated by
it, but also get that
kid to play with devices
and hardware, which is what
they want to do as
well. So trying to close
that ecosystem, I think will
really help solve some of
the problems that you were
seeing and your own scenario.
Yeah. I mean, it's asking
a lot of a teacher
to learn how to do
deal with the three D
printer and then, you know,
be, be creative and come
up with the bridge between
whatever they're teaching, whatever standard
that they're teaching and what
they can imagine that they
could create. You know, I
don't want this to be
an advertisement for my STEM
kits, but I will tell
you that the reason that
I reached out to you
to do the podcast is
that I saw you're on
your Twitter account. I would
recommend that people who are
listening to the show, go
check it out. It's my
S T E M kits
and go to the, the
photos section. Like, I'll give
you like an example, right?
Like we all did like
potential energy and kinetic energy,
like in school, you know?
And it's usually like, you
know, taking a hot wheels
car down a ramp, you
know what I mean? And
then there's value in that.
But you know, you created
like an energy roller coaster
kit, very specific curve to
show how energy moves from
place to place. And you
print everything out from scratch.
The, the, the, the creativity
in the three D printing
stuff and the imagination there
is what you're kind of
like, what's, you're paying for,
I don't know who you
got to do that, but
it's amazing. It's this is
hundreds and hundreds of kits
that I wish I had
in school when I was
coming up. And that's, what's
fun about it as well.
In that particular initiative. Also,
we work a lot with
some creative people down at
Florida state university, where there's
an entire team of just
educators and teachers and master
teachers that have taught in
the classroom. So every kid
you see out there, not
only was it created to
allow for that experience to
be it's important teacher to
use the printer. They also
were, they've been testing and
using the classroom. So every
kid has gone through multiple
iterations. So by the time
he gets to our portal,
they've been used and for
each potential, each kid that's
out there, we have one
or more lessons assigned to
it. So if you're a
fifth grade teacher who wants
to teach that potential energy
scenario, you could go and
just go to this map
section and say, give me
a five grade five example,
and it will show you
less than it will show
you standards aligned curriculum that
you can use. And the
idea for this is very
simple is how can you
create the biggest and most
robust library of STEM aligned
manipulatives that can be used
that are relevant. And in
some cases, a value proposition,
just scenarios that, and we
have examples as an example
where a lot of anatomy
type classes or things along
those lines have allergy lessons,
they have bird skulls and
things. And I always tell
people to think that, like,
if you wanted to go
and do something in your
classroom with a skull, a
bird has to die, right?
So those things are very
expensive. So, or in some
cases, maybe it's an example
on anatomy where it's a
small species, so like a
pigeon skull or something, and
you don't want to kindergarten
working with that small fragile
thing. And so a lot
of cases, we have kits
that we've created that can't
necessarily purchase a bot, so
they can, they're very expensive
to produce. But in other
cases, there are things that
you just can't manufacture a
mold. And so it opens
up the possibilities there. And
the third thing that we
do there is that a
lot of times three D
printing is not as a
lot of people assume that
three D printing really is
about just scanning a pitcher
and printing something out. And
that experience of design and
a model, you know, putting
it on an SD card,
popping it into a computer
and it becomes very kind
of cumbersome. And so in
our use case, what we've
done is that we built
out a platform to where
you can onboard pretty much
any major printer in the
market and directly stream to
the printer. So within a
classroom, a teacher can log
in browse, a collection of
files. They want segmented by
standard and grade and hit
the print button. And when
they do that, it literally
starts to stream to their
printer instead of making demystifying
that three D printing experience,
but making it relevant has
been a big part of
our focus. And we were
getting a lot of good
reception around that. And we're
hopeful that with this current
approach, we can reach more
kids. And again, back to
the model before making it
engaging, accessible, and affordable so
that anybody who has this
can kind of get engaged.
That's a really big part
of my passion, the mission
these days. Yeah. That, that
aspect of things is so
important because you as a
three D printer person myself,
I would have to say
that probably 60% of my
time is thinking about how
to get the thing to
print the thing, you know,
like laying it out on
the, on the, you know,
when you get the model,
someone hands you the model,
and typically it's, it's public
domain. It's a model that
you find on Thingiverse. You
have to place it on
the, on the, on the
print surface oriented, appropriately set
up the supports correctly. You
have to think like, imagine
if someone gave you a
word document and you had
to figure out the right
size, the right margins, the
right fonts, none of that
was included. That's all barriers
to prevent me or a
teacher from, from just success.
Yeah, it is. Yeah. And
so in our case, you
mentioned, what does that, so
Hannah Olson is that people go
and they go and look
at Twitter, they'll see Hannah
out there. And she, I
call it a STEM goddess.
Like she is an amazing
person. And her particular case
has a background in modeling
with the school for doing
that. And so having that
type of person on our
team, that's able to go
through and got our team
of modelers to build these
things out and not just
assemble it as you mentioned,
but setting specific settings per
printer. So in some cases,
that's an example. We always
show, we have an example
of a kit, which is
a density cubes kit. And
it's nice because the three
D printing, and one of
the things that you can
control is the density of
the shape you're presenting that
you're making. And so you
build out these density accused
with different densities and you
can drop them in a
pool of water. And so
showing a kid that, you
know, things that are more
dense or will sink and
things that don't arise is
critical. We also have scenarios
of this Teeter totter. And
I use this on my
kids. You mentioned you have
a young son. So I
have seven year old twins,
a boy and girl, and
they always say things like,
you know, it's a thousand
percent. So they understand magnitude,
but not really kind of,
you know what it really
means like a hundred versus
a million. They didn't really
know the difference. So one
of the kids that we
have is a weight at
scale. So you print this
scale out and you can
print out these little squares
at different densities. And the
squares can be things like
let's say coins is one
example. So it has a
dollar piece, a nickel piece
of dime piece. And as
you stack them on the
scale, it balances itself. So
I was able to take
that particular kit home for
dinner one day and just
give my kids these things.
And I didn't even explain
what I was doing. And
by the time we finished
dinner, they knew four quarters
equals $1, and they were
able to make those kinds
of determinations of justice by
simply playing with plastics, you
know, and it's something that
I've been trying forever figuring
out forever how to explain
that. And I couldn't. And
so these kids said able,
things like that, and it's,
so it's exciting when you
get in the classroom, you
see a kid at a
conference playing with it or
in a classroom playing with
it, and you can see
how man his printer was,
was simply before just a
random thing now has become
a supply factory that really
can cane and change people's
perceptions on education. So let's,
let's back up and partial
word that you've been throwing
around. Like, it's obvious because
this is your business. You
said, manipulatives, what are you
manipulative? That makes me feel
like it's the stuff that
you touch and feel. And
that's when, when the learning,
Yeah, manipulative would be an
asset or an object that
you're using in the classroom
to aid in instruction. So
a ruler, right? If you're
teaching how to measure length
and precision, the ruler itself
will be the manipulative. And
so in our case, if
you look through the, my
STEM kits portfolio of projects,
we're building things like catapults,
rocket lunchers DNA kits, the
scales were building cars. So
all of these are assets
that a teacher, typically, as
you've mentioned, we'll be doing
in the classroom. So you
mentioned the potential energy scenario
as well. Through that example,
when I was in school,
you had this sign, you
saw the sign wave type
of thing. And it was
like, we you're at the
top. You're at your highest
potential. When you wrapped at
the bottom, you lost potential.
And you're trying to explain
this abstract concept. And let's
fast forward that back to
how my STEM kids would
approach that. We realized that
in most classrooms, that when
they're trying to buy ramp
kits, they're very expensive. On
average schools are spending 150,
$200 plus to go out
and buy a kit just
to do one particular experiment.
So in our case, we
said, well, great. Let's go
and design a ramp kit
where we're going to use
pencils and rulers. So we
produced it three D printed
parts that you print out
and you combine these with
the pencils and rulers to
make a ramp you're manipulative.
And now you're trying to
teach kids well, potential and
kinetic energy. So we do
is we have a car
and then one of our
partners is a company called
science, which manufacturer sensors. So
we take this car and
we put a force and
motion sensor on it. So
this is an IOT Bluetooth
device where you can put
it on the cart, run
an experiment. And in real
time via an app, you're
able to collect data. The
data includes the position, the
velocity acceleration, and then dependent
upon where you are, whether
you're a younger kid or
an older kid, you can
take real time data and
be able to explain that
phenomenon. So instead of going
and drawing it graph and
chart and trying to make
this abstract notion catch with
a kid who maybe is
not interested, they're out in
the classroom using real, using
their hands with these manipulatives
to get that concept. And
I think that that's the
difference that taking these abstract
concepts, making them very hands
on and engaging, I think
is what model motivates this,
these, this challenge generation. And
I think that the, one
of the root and things
I'm hearing when we talk
about next generation STEM is
also that the technology may
be in the, it may
just be in different sections
of the room, the Arduino,
or the sensor, or the
IOT device that they were
given is in a drawer
somewhere on used, you know,
the three D printer was
fun for a week or
two. We couldn't figure out
what to print. We couldn't
get prints. So it's in
the corner on used, you
know, or everyone has an
iPhone or an Android phone,
but you know, other than
some apps, what are we
using for it? Another great
example is that you made
a microscope phone adapter, right?
So you've got a microscope
in the green, in the
classroom. Everyone's got an iPhone
and with some rubber bands
and some really clever three
D printed parts that are
all part of this, this
kit now you've, you've basically
jacked your iPhone into the
microscope. And now you're taking
video of what's happening on
cells on the, you know,
live right there. But you,
but you're not doing it
with an expensive adapter or
some thing that you bought.
That's just for that skill,
right? You printed that plastic
out yourself. And I think
people take that for granted.
What most people don't realize
is that unless you have
an educator and your family,
is that a lot of
those things you're mentioning are
they're part of your supply
budget. And oftentimes the teachers,
the personnel, making those things
happen. They're the one running
around the hobby lobby and
different places trying to buy
stuff to do things right.
And so being able to
have that resource available, but
it goes a step father,
how do you know how
to sequence that? And they
can find it when they
need it. And I think
a lot of people kind
of get confused in this
internet age, where we're so
used to going out and
tapping into our nearest browser.
I would never start changing
a keyword and finding a
result, but there's a lot
of mess out there and
a lot of stuff that's,
that's available. And so being
able to filter and index
these different tools, present them
back when they're needed, and
then making it easy for
those teachers to produce it
and get access to it
is also a part of
that. And the other piece
that is important as well
as the professional development, because
as you mentioned, I was
in a school last week
here in Atlanta, and it
was a local STEM coordinator.
And I walked into the
room and I saw every
robot. You can imagine every
piece of hardware you can
imagine. And every, it was,
it was crazy. It must've
been in that room, smart
bores. And it probably was
$300,000 of stuff in that
room, but that, but as
they're showing our solution than
what it did, and they
saw value in it, and
almost to the point to
where we asked a question
and we talked about how
a lot of times different
schools and people just buy
stuff because it was in
a catalog somewhere. And the
teacher raised their hand, said,
I'm guilty of that. They're
buying what they're being presented
by people who market it
best, but nobody's making it
integrate it so that people
can really use it and
add value. And that's a
really big problem in industry
right now. And in particular
in education. Yeah. You know,
I'm Like that those schools
exist, right? Like for every
school that has, you know,
hundreds of thousands of dollars
of stuff like that. There's
other schools like mine that
are, that are we're on,
you know, 70% of the
local budget and we're, you
know, run by volunteers. Yeah.
Yes. I haven't had an
answer. I used to think
as well. I used to
think so to, it comes
in two falls. We, and
that's a real part of
what we focus on as
well. Is that in one
sense, it's like they have
not. So we don't have
access to resources, but on
the other side is the
people who have resources, but
they're underexposed. And so being
able to pull these things
together in a coherent way
that they understand and making
a technology seamless is also
a big piece of what
it's going to take to
be able to get this
stuff out there to the
masses. So the key is
truly can benefit One of
the things that I've found
from a creativity perspective that
is really impressive about the
design of the different 3d
things that you're doing helped
me be a better three
D printer was, and this
is going to sound obvious,
but the reminder that the
thing that you're building, doesn't
just have to be made
out of three D printed
parts. Like for example, a
catapult, you shouldn't build that
with only stuff you can
print. You're going to hit
a wall really quickly. And
while it might seem obvious
to you to like add
rubber bands or add a
coin or some ball bearings
or whatever, it took me
probably six months of three
D printing before I realized
that I could go and
just take some screws from
home Depot and screw them
into the thing. And then
things got interesting. And that
was the whole point though,
the entire point of my
STEM kiss was leveraging stuff
in the classroom to enable
more stuff. Right. So we
built out, we have an
example of this, like science
experimenters kit. It does things
like, you know, you have,
you seen a set up
where you have like the,
the light flashing, you measuring
temperature over distance, and you
have three or four different
test tubes where you're measuring
different liquids. Like those apparatus,
again, you may go and
spend in a science, a
typical science catalog, you know,
thousand dollars. And so you
take five rulers, a couple
of pencils and some common
stuff, and you have this
thing done with $5 in
plastics. And so that's a
really, so having teachers in
the classroom, normally they have
access to and thinking about
how you can take that
and make it something greater.
Like a sum of the
parts is truly, you know,
a big hole as is
a big focus of what
we're doing now. So people
get very excited by that.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I've
got a dry one. I
have a dremmel brand printer.
I've found that to be
a real workhorse. Like I've
got a couple of the
three D printers, but the
dremmel just worked. No, we
love drum. We'll actually, that's
one of our strategic partners.
So dremmel currently when you
purchased their education skewed printer,
it actually comes bundled with
10 of the, my STEM
kits kits directly on the
SD card. And we're soon
to roll out a new
printer. They'll be an education
skewed focused printer to where,
when you get that particular
printer, it'll come bundled with
four months of my STEM
kits. So we, we like
to rumble and we focus
in on those guys. One
because the quality it works,
it works very well to,
for the class. And for
the size of printer they
have is actually one of
the best values you'll find
in the market. And so
we really wanted to find
something that you could go
into a school that was
enclosed. That just works. And
more importantly, if there's an
issue you can call one
800, give me help. And
somebody answers a phone. So
we like those guys in
there. They're one of our
procedure partners. Yeah. I actually
funded, this is a true
story. And again, like, we're
sounding like we're gushing, but
we are because when you
find a good product, you
got a little bit, you
know, I got the dremmel
and then one day I
stepped away from a little
while and it got, it
got kinda crooked because it
got a clog. So I
called support and, you know,
I had low expectations of
support, you know what I
mean? I have, I generally
have low expectations and I
could hear something in the
background. The, the person on
the support was printing. Interesting.
So I just figured it
would be somebody reading from
a script. Right. But the
individual not only was printing,
but actually knew the number
of thousands of hours that
they had in printing experience.
So he's like, Oh no,
I've been printing for like
1,850 hours. So this person
helped me disassemble the head
of the, of the dremmel
and unclog it and then
reassemble it. And it was
not nearly as hard as
I thought, but it was
such a joy to talk
to someone on support that
actually was using the product,
which I thought was kind
of cool. Yeah. And that's
really important for education man.
Cause people will be surprised
for some of the leaders
in the market. The model
hidden pass has been women.
When schools buy printers, they
don't even come with support
supporters like an add on
and more. And even some
of the major printers that
were there were being sold
to schools, mandate added a
box. And in some cases
have like, you know, 30,
40% failure rates. And so
what happens in that case
is that even with a
product like ours, which we
believe kind of enables an
entire wave of innovation, people
start to get this disdain
on the industry. And so
is holding, you know, holding
back innovation. So yeah, definitely.
We're excited about those guys
and we hope that in
our case that we can
continue to add content over
time. As an example, we
pushed out, I think this
past month alone, we pushed
out an additional 40 kits
and there are another 30
or 40 in the backlog.
And outside of that curriculum,
it's being written every day.
So we hope that if
you are out there now,
when you think the library
is amazing, you know, just
continue to check and it'll
continue to grow and grow
and add more value over
time. So we've gushed about
three D printers and you
touched a little bit on
sensors, but I know that,
that we both feel that
there's a lot of hardware
that is in drawers. There's
a lot of Arduinos that
have had LEDs blink, and
then they've been put away,
you know, how do we
go from the, the abstract
to the, you know, the,
the kinesthetic to the physical
and may and put these
things to work. Yeah. We
start in that again, my
background is electrical engineering and,
you know, being hands on
your lap, like your son
with that example of things,
Blinken has always been intriguing
to me. And so we've
spoken on that as well.
So if you take a
look at mantis, open stem.com,
mantis like the spider OPN,
S T m.com there, you'll
see one of our strategic
partners we work with. And
the idea here was that,
how do you create an
ecosystem of, again, open, engaged,
and accessible sensors that allow
for people to get engaged?
So out there, as an
example, one of my STEM
kits kits is imagine you're
trying to teach kids about
light intensity, right? So there's
a, my STEM kits kit
that uses pencils and rulers
to build his temperature tower.
And what happens is that
on a temperature tower, they
Mount one of the senses,
which is a climate sensor.
And this sensor is able
to measure things like light,
intensity, humidity, barometric pressure, et
cetera. And they're all wireless
sensors. So in one example,
the kid has a cell
phone. Again, like you said
earlier, that's already in the
classroom. They have a piece
of paper and they shine
light from the cell phone
through the paper. And what
we do is that you
change out that dead material.
And you're able to show
key is in real time
through an app that different
surfaces have different intensities or
they reflect different amounts of
light. And so again, taking
common classroom things, bringing it
out T space into it
to make an open and
engaging is interesting. There we
also, one of the projects
I'm very excited about right
now is that you're familiar
with scratch I'm swimming, right?
Yeah. Actually, my son is
working on a scratch game
right now. Pretty abstract though.
It's all just on the
screen. Exactly. So huge ecosystems
like the guys at MIT
and that ecosystem is very
nice. And a lot of
people of late have come
out and started to put
in sensors that tie into
it. So, you know, Lego's
you name it. You can
go in and connect with
those things. The challenge is
that though, in most cases,
all you're doing is going
in connecting this and go
forward and go back. It's
not really again, tap education.
So one of the projects
that we're doing today in
that is that we're launching
a version of scratch, which
is based on the current
framework where it will actually
be able to connect to
each of the sensors that
are in the framework, but
not just one on one
actual at the same time,
but we're building out with
our partnership at FSU curriculum.
And that curriculum is tied
focus on the fourth to
the kind of eighth grade,
middle school kind of group.
And it'll teach you scratch.
It'll teach you computer science
and also teach you to
standards, but it'll use scratch
as interface to make that
happen. And so, and then
beyond that, for people who
are in high school and
beyond those same sensors, then
also have open API APIs
where kids are learning how
to do things like unity.
So I've been, I don't
play games a lot, but
I'm very intrigued by gaming.
And so we have interns
in the office now where
they're writing apps that are
leveraging and taking Bluetooth and
IOT data and using things
like unity to write, to
write apps. So how do
you meet people where they
are and take them where
they want to go? So
if a person is an
Android developer and his job
is to hit Java SDK,
or somebody likes to write
in Microsoft, here's what you
need to go and make
a windows universal app. But
everything in that space needs
to be again, aligned back
to their standards. So these
teachers and schools can embrace
that. And that's a really
big focus of what we're
doing. It seems like having
the, you know, these open
standards and have it be
kind of late the new
IOT Lego pieces. I always
love to use Legos is
that you don't want to
be locked into a platform.
You wanna be able to
talk to things over Bluetooth
or USB in a way
that is interchangeable. Yeah. Yeah.
So that, I think that's
critical is the most of
the devices out there now
in the IOT space and
in the classrooms are typically
then not Bluetooth, the legacy
of Bluetooth or proprietary frameworks.
You could see a wave
of new devices that are
starting to come on, come
online now. But a lot
of people are really haven't
been giving schools the access.
So that's an example of
one of the major, what
they call program companies in
the market today, I was
working with a school a
couple of years ago. And
when you bought their product,
if you want it to
go in their app as
an example, and it puts
your own curriculum in it,
you have to pay them
for that. And they were
literally give you a PowerPoint
file and you have to
go and change a few
words out. And they would
basically take that curriculum, put
it aside of their app.
And that's how you got
exposed to it. And so
you're really locked into it.
And there were no API
APIs to get your data.
You can extend it. So
what they did, they have
a very nice sensor that
can give you some data.
The kid has an app
in their hand. They can
see the value change and
they can hit save. But
since there wasn't an open
standard, you couldn't take the
temperature sensor and the climate
sensor and go combine it
in your own app to
go make something for hydroponics.
So you limited the use
case based on what they
wanted to expose because they
didn't want their ecosystem was
very close. And I think
that's a really big problem.
That's really stunting innovation and
allow people to kind of
go where they want to
go with it. And so
making an open, accessible, engaging,
and thirdly taking the cost
out of it, there is
no reason why it should
cost somebody, you know, a
hundred dollars about a temperature
probe. That's not even digital.
And, and that's that, that's
a really big pain point
for me as well. How
do you, you're an entrepreneur
though. You presumably want to
make business. How do you
make things open and then
also make money? I think
it's very simple, man. So
I always think about, and
you would relate to this,
like you think about domain
names back in the day,
right? You had to go
to somewhere like register.com and
buy a domain name. And
it was very expensive. And
then this GoDaddy company comes
along and kind of cuts
the cost and everybody uses
them. Right. So I think
that if you found a
way to spread it out
to the masses, there's a
way to kind of make
it happen. Because particularly if
you look at hardware, one
of the driving costs for
hardware is the scale at
which you produce it. Right?
And so finding ways to
extend the use cases and
to broaden that ecosystem helps
you kind of keep those
costs down. And also there
are a lot of other
value added things that come
with that. So for instance,
if you look at schools
today, a lot of schools
or States have adopted laws
now where schools are moving
away from ditch, from actual
physical textbooks. And so they're
moving toward digital, some schools,
there's some open standards, textbook
standards where you can produce
digital textbooks. So some school
districts actually go out and
they come back and on
these resources and make digital
textbooks. And so if you
have an ecosystem that's out
there, that's relevant that people
are connected with. Then there
are ways to look at
content to make it happen,
or more importantly, a lot
of device companies, or a
lot of major technology companies
like devices. You mentioned Bluetooth,
a Bluetooth device has to
connect to a computer, a
tablet or something else. I
believe there's a unique opportunity
to connect with companies who
are focused on STEM or
education to put together bundles
and scenarios to where you
package these things together and
make it happen a few
years ago. Well, yeah, maybe
a couple of years back,
there was cases out in
California where the districts invested
a lot of money and
iPads, right. And that program
had a couple of issues.
But imagine if they were
to have bundle an iPad
with a sensor suite that
was useful across the entire
district, but also relevant to
the standards. So I think
it wasn't creative packaging and
the right partners. There's a
way to make it happen
and have it women everywhere.
Very cool. So if someone
has a, has a school
or a private school or
homeschool, let's say a homeschool
are these kinds of things
inaccessible to them financially, but
or not. So in particular,
in the case of the,
my STEM kits business, there
actually are two models. And
there was one built for
homeschools where there's an enterprise
model naturally where a school
district can go and subscribe
based on the number of
kids in a class or
a classroom set. But on
the consumer side, we actually
treated it like the models
that a lot of the
royalty image websites kind of
do where our kids have
points, whether it's a basic
or an extended kit. And
there are packages as low
as like a couple hundred
dollars a year where you
can get in kind of
get access to the library,
print out what you want
on demand and be able
to get that curriculum. And
to your, to your question,
that also is a part
of the business model. We
believe that just as we
can be effective within schools,
that we can also become
a resource for home schools,
private schools, after school programs
and summer schools, I'll give
the example of my kids
last summer. And we had,
we were looking for a
really full, full summer full
lift summer program for six
year olds that focused on
STEM and the most that
we could find where these
little small one weeks in
it programs that they could
go to, maybe some, a
couple of weeks, they were
kinda not continuous. But the
thing that got me the
most about that was I
got my kids into a
program. They were very excited
about it. They were learning
STEM based things, and my
kid would come home. My
kids would come on the
end of the day and
they would try to demonstrate
to me what they had
learned in the camp that
summer, that day, and when
they got home, everything they
built was like, you know,
toilet paper, cardboard with some
glue on it, with a
stick. And by the time
they tried to show me
the example they broke. And
so all of these organizations
are out there, engage with
our kids and they're using
kind of lackluster resources. And
I believe that in this,
my STEM kits use case,
we can become their, their
tool set to leverage that
gives them sturdy things that
are valuable to kind of
prolong that experience. So that,
that again is something that
I'm very excited about. Very
cool. Well, thanks so much
for talking with me today.
I appreciate your time on,
thank you for having me,
man. Anytime we can talk
about stamina kids, it really
excites me. And I thank
you for lending than a
year. I'm your community and
your voice to what we're
doing is really much appreciated.
Absolutely. And we'll be sure
to put links to all
the things we talked about
in the show notes. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again. .